I start this video with a disclaimer
that Street activism is not activism
it's one form of activism that many
people mistakenly believe is
representative of all activism I've said
repeatedly on this channel that the best
form of activism is whatever form of
activism can really play a meaningful
role in your life and that's going to be
very different if you're an architect if
you're an engineer if you work at
Starbucks if you're currently a
university student it's going to be
different if your first language is
Spanish or if your first language is
Chinese if you have a stutter if you
have a physical disability you'll have
different advantages and disadvantages
related to all the other aspects of your
life that will link to how you best can
make a difference in the world
how activism how political engagement
can be a meaningful part of your life
and how you can make a meaningful
difference in the world with that caveat
having been stated I think there are
very good reasons why so many vegans
feel embarrassed to attend an event such
as the one you've just seen in your
screen and I think they're not trivial I
think they're not caddy I think they're
not shallow reasons I think they're
reasons that we should all think about
and analyze very carefully
even exist
speciesism salute the paradigm of street
activism brings with it many dangerous
delusions and some of them creep up on
you gradually one of those delusions is
the assumption that this represents a
spontaneous outpouring of emotion and it
very rarely does the video you've just
been looking at is filmed in Toronto
Canada a city I used to live in a city
where I attended many many protests
myself in history of the world we have
had examples of protests erupting at
funerals protests erupting and sporting
events protests erupting spontaneously
at a march of another kind or of course
in response to a war there are examples
in history of the world of sudden
unexpected public emotion bringing
crowds of people to do spontaneous
things but most of what we see
especially 2016 these are carefully
contrived events and yet the aesthetic
of a spontaneous outpouring precludes
the possibility that we really question
who fashioned this message who approved
it who could send it to it and whether
or not there really was anything
democratic about how the project
protests was put together now if I
attended this protest I would find it
deeply embarrassing what this man is
saying on the loudspeaker but it's most
likely I would attend this protest like
the 95 people who attended this simply
in response to a post on Facebook or an
email or a telephone message that some
electronic medium was used to contact me
to invite me to attend and that when I
showed up it was assumed I would consent
to whoever that man was holding the
megaphone stating whatever message he
was stating
I don't know this group I just say from
my experience that many many protests in
Canada people are often shocked if you
suggest that you should actually have a
meeting making use of managerial methods
to discuss with a group of people what
is the message of this protest and to
vote on it to ultimately have a
democratic decision-making protest say
okay at this pro at this protest what is
it that we have to say what is even the
wording of that message that we are
going to deliver what is it that we
share as a values or as a message or
what have you and then at the end
ultimately who is going to hold the
microphone and say it it may not be
necessary for that message to be
carefully scripted word by word but
obviously a fundamental question such as
do you think it is effective activism to
claim that racism would cease to exist
in this world if everyone were vegan to
me that is a fundamentally absurd
message that discredits veganism that
makes all of us look like fools and that
makes these people seem like they have
no real world experience I think it's
always useful with racism to take
examples that are not too familiar to
the people involved that you may not
have emotional attachment to so rather
than talking about for instance the
oppression of black people United States
America let me tell you in southern
Cambodia the animosity between
ethnically Vietnamese people and
ethnically Cambodian people will not
disappear if everyone in Cambodia
becomes vegan no chance in northern Laos
the anima the animosity between Thai
kadai people and moan Khmer people and
the so-called low lowish people like the
akka the different these aren't even
ethnic groups these are groups of groups
by the way the intense racism that
separates the Hmong from the tyloo in
northern Laos if all of those people
became vegan the world would become a
better place in many many ways but
racism would not disappear I don't think
racism what
even be reduced by 5% I don't believe
that and I think those examples
precisely because most people know I
need to know nothing about them in a
place like Laos and Cambodia probably
you can just nod your head and imagine G
on the other side of the world there are
different ethnic groups that hate each
other for reasons I have never studied I
can't relate to and yet I can imagine
that whatever those reasons are they're
actually not rooted in dietary decisions
nor even in ethical decisions make in
how they exploit animals now again I
might as well stick with the same time
in place I remember one of my
girlfriends who identified as a feminist
when we first got together she asked
about those those questions status of
women in the countries I studied places
like Cambodia Laos Sri Lanka and the
very simple answer I gave her was
everywhere you go it's a struggle the
status of women in Laos or Cambodia is
much much better than in Muslim
countries because we're talking about
Buddhist countries versus Muslim
countries but yes there are certainly
problems with the settlement if everyone
became vegan do I believe that these
status of women would be improved to be
honest I think the main people whose
lives would be improved would be the
employees of slaughterhouses and
employees in animal exploiting
industries whose lives are miserable and
who are predominantly men so yeah in so
many ways this is just absurd and
ridiculous but in this video what I'm
trying to alert you to is the fact that
you don't need to be a pawn of whoever
made the first Facebook post it doesn't
make sense to pretend that these are
spontaneous outpourings of emotion from
people or overwhelmed with a sudden
desire to save the world there's a
deliberative process in putting together
a package of meanings that you're gonna
try to communicate and in choosing the
methods to communicate those whether
it's a sign being held up or a drum or a
form of theatre on the street or getting
people together to do something that in
my opinion would be more productive
something has nothing to do with street
protests
and if you are gonna join one of these
groups then you really do have the right
to be consulted you have the right to be
part of some kind of democratic yet
democratic process in fashioning that
message and in approving that message
and if you don't agree with the message
don't be a sheep don't stand there and
chant at the end of the day you've got
to walk away you've got to say to
yourself I can do better than this
I can do better than to assent to repeat
and chant aloud a message that actually
discredits veganism that makes all of us
look like fools just because something's
true does not mean that it's effective
activism to scream it in the streets and
that's pretty much exactly what we're
talking about here isn't it is it true
that the vast majority of Canadians the
vast majority of people in Toronto
Canada are blind and mute in relation to
the exploitation of animals yes it is in
the footage you just saw does it look to
you like anyone in the street cares the
random assortment of individuals in the
street whom you're interrupting while
they do their food shopping do you think
any of them care
in the footage I've seen from this
protest you can follow the link below
this video I think the only people who
care are the people who are attending
the event themselves and I've said in
earlier videos that can be meaningful in
its way it can be a rally it can be
rewarding for people there could be a
opportunity them to network with each
other and plan more meaningful events
the future but the hollowness of the
street protests and even the hollowness
of this type of history onic claim even
when it's true it's deeply embarrassing
to me it makes me feel ashamed to be a
vegan and it makes me feel ashamed to
agree with her but I come at this from a
very different background for most of
you I care passionately about many many
issues that the vast majority of
Canadians are blind and deaf to I have
cared for many years in my life about
the situation for First Nations people
indigenous people American Indians
whatever term you want to use it is
entirely fair to say the vast majority
of people in downtown Toronto Canada are
blind and deaf to First Nations most of
them make ad ins can't even name the
native people that surround the city
there they're living in you know let
alone more remote people's only when
there's a disaster such as mass suicide
on one of the reservations that they get
onto the news etc etc would it be
effective activism advocacy politics for
me to stand on the street in Toronto and
scream most of you are blind and deaf to
this issue it's true but it's actually
not my place to scream it it's not
effective activism to me to scream it
it's just not real politics it's a phony
outpouring of outrage and emotion that
accomplishes nothing
except perhaps for making us look like
fools and the contrast is there even in
this video all you have to do is really
consider the indifference of the random
members of the general public that are
walking past one of the simplest and
most important ideas in the science of
economics is the concept of opportunity
cost 95 people attended this protest
they could have been doing something
better with that time to promote
veganism I am a vegan I am a political
vegan but I actually believe that those
95 people I don't know some of them are
probably brilliant some of them are
fools I don't know any of them they
could have been making a difference
inside City Hall instead of screaming on
the street outside of City Hall they
could have been doing real lobbying or
they could have been doing something as
humble as trying to write a children's
book or trying to influence curriculum
and local Board of Education believe me
I know in this specific location I've
been inside that same City Hall I've
been involved with political lobbying on
that Street on that block in that
government I know I know that system
there are real opportunities for you to
make a democratic difference and they
may not even realize it but they're
choosing not to make a difference in any
of those ways this is absolutely
astounding to me that we have so much
we have we counted 95 people here today
at the start and that's just incredible
on a Saturday like this bad news TN for
me as a vegan it's easy to be
self-righteous it's easy for me to say
shut it all down smash all the cages set
all the animals free that's easy yeah
but the whole reason why my youtube
channel exists is that I'm not really
interested in easy answers to
complicated questions I'm interested in
dealing with all the murky complicated
you know moral gray areas ah da new Yin